---
layout: post
excerpt: Pre-Syrian Civil War Music
permalink: /Pre-Syrian-Civil-War-Music
published: true
---
Mazhott
What initially drew me to this album was the familiar sounds that came from an unfamiliar world. When I first listened to the music, I thought I was listening to English punk rock from the seventies. The music started with guitar, bass and drums that had such a punk-styled sound, I half-expected Johnny Rotten to open with the first lyrics. The truth was that this music was from Damascus in 2010. Just months before the outbreak of the Syrian civil war in 2011, this band was playing punk rock in the capital. When I heard the first lyrics in Arabic, I was amazed with what I was hearing. I had never heard punk music sung in Arabic before, and I was hooked on what I was hearing.
Mazhott, a Syrian punk rock band that formed in 2008 put out their first and only album, M for Mazhott, in 2013. While most of the tracks from the album were originally recorded in 2010, when the band was most active and playing live shows in Syria, a few additions came later in 2013 when the album was released. There is both English and Arabic lyrics on the album, but each song is sung in only one of these languages.
As my curiosity continued, a few quick searches led me to finding that this was indeed their only album ever released, and it is evident the band split apart and hasn’t produced any more music since. Regardless of this unfortunate news, I believe their music is very inspiring. Unlike the punk rockers of the late seventies and early eighties, this band had enormous obstacles due to high censorship in Syria when it comes to art that can be performed in public. Punk rock is, at heart, a test of strength. The power of punk rock to defy the very norms set in place by society and the rest of the music world is seen in Mazhott’s sounds, possibly to a further extent than their punk predecessors. I think their strength was put to the test every day that they spent making this music, and I think the outcome shows that they are some of the truest punk rockers who ever lived.
I tip my hat to Mazhott, for they accomplished something that every artist dreams of, putting together some very unique work that they can share with the rest of the world, and they did it in comparably more demanding situations than most punk rockers. Their sounds will live on, and I hope one day they might be able to produce more. 
